Hi. Let's see, what are the basics in cybersecurity? The first thing we should understand is the CIA model and CIA model. It actually describes the core goals of cyber security. So this means in cyber space of nowadays, what do we want to achieve when we talk about security. First thing is confidentiality. That means. Only authorized the people get to see the data. And the second thing I mean integrity. So integration means there's certain assurance that data has not been manipulated or corrupted. A men's availability. So that means all the time we wish the data can be accessible or the service can be accessible all the time. So this CIA model is the very first model in the security area. And that was proposed in 1974 as the development of online environment. People find CIA model doesn't describe everything we wish to achieve in cyber security. There are more things we wish to achieve. So those are authenticity and non-repudiation.

Now let's look at the details about all these five goals.

Firstly about confidentiality. This is a relevant to data security. So that means we wish to mitigate. Unauthorized access to sensitive nettled assets. You may find a different, um, scenario and there are classification for the documents. So for example, in private sector, um the documents can be classified into public internal confidential. But how can we achieve confidentiality and we can actually have different methods. We will talk about all this in detail in this course. So we can't use encryption method or authentication or access control. So there are different ways to guarantee the confidentiality. And then about integrity. So integrity also relates to data or information security. It is to protect the data against unauthorized or accidental change. So which means once we release something such as the software or the data, we wish to provide integrity of this data or software. So that means, uh, receiver who can see those data or who receive that software knows there's no malicious data, um, attached to the original software or there's no data change in the data. So how can we achieve this? And there are some ways are listed here. You can see we can use security programs which manage and detect the change. And we can also request permission to control access. And of course we can also audit and always have accounting process, um in the system to record any change to the data. So all of these are different ways to protect the integrity. So visibility also relates to data or information security. So that means we wish the accessibility is always there. Um and to the to the users system and applications. There are two common threats to availability. One is accidental and the other is deliberate. Right. So in actual scenario, we have many different types of, um, threats. Sometimes it's just by natural disaster and the equipment failure. Those accidental threats to the availability by some other time, the hacker or malicious user, they may launch different attacks. So that availability is not there. Or sometimes the service is dull and the software service can't be used properly. As we have discussed. See, a model doesn't cover every scenario. We wish to have security in place, and there are other goals we wish to achieve in security. So the first one is authenticity and the second one is non-repudiation. So in total, there are five core goals we wish to achieve in cyber security, depending on the, um, particular scenario. Right. So authenticity means, uh, we wish there is certain assurance we know who have sent or created the data. Again, technically we have different ways to provide this authenticity about the non-repudiation, which means we wish to have certain assurance that the author or the sender cannot deny an action. This can be accomplished through digital signature. In this course, and we will discuss all the different methods around these five goals and how to achieve them. So now I wish to have remembered all five core goals in cyber security, CIA model plus authenticity and non-repudiation.

So now at least five examples here, and I wish you could post your video and have a think about each scenario here. What is called goals in each of them?

So let's come back to all these five different scenarios. The first one the software wish to guarantee there are no malicious code attached to the original clean code. With this one, you would think the provider really wish their users are using a clean code rather than, um, some malicious code. The hacker has has attached to their clean code, right? So the wish to provide the integrity of their original code so that when user download them in their computer, the user have the confidence that this software is a clean software. So what we wish to achieve that is integrity.

And the second one the service provider wished to provide service to users all the time. So from the five core Gaussian authentication non-repudiation, the availability is the core goal we wish to achieve here. And with a third one. Financial department wishes to let the receiver trust. The email is from this department. So with that one. Authenticity is the right answer. And in the full scenario, a university cannot deny that a degree certificate has been issued after many years. So of course we all when we when we receive some digital certificate, we wish that certificate is valid. And the issuing body they can't deny. Right. And they they haven't issued that one. So we wish in this process we wish there is non-repudiation goal achieved for this scenario. And in the fifth scenario. The cabinet system is the system now we're using. Right. And that is the system providing access to all the teaching material. And then when the student is using this time, that system. And of course the care system. Wish the exam papers all the answers not to be accessed by the students in the wrong time. Right. So in that sense, we actually wish to have the confidentiality in place. For the exam papers and answers. So here are the answers. I hope you have got all of them correctly.