Now we will discuss several terms which are commonly confusing in the cybersecurity area. Risks. Threats. Vulnerabilities. Exploits.

Why distinguishing them is important because although these terms look similar, but they have different meanings. In cybersecurity documentation, such as a risk assessment report or security policies. These terms need to be used to correctly. Before we talk about these terms, let's look at this question. I have three descriptions here. So each of them means a different tone. Can you distinguish them? Which one is um. Export? Which one is a threat or which one is a vulnerability? Have a think about this. Know before I give up the answers. Let's look at what each term means. Threat is an agent or an actor which may cause a damage. It can be anything such as a human, an object, or a substance that acts in a manner which may result in harm. Such as a drunk driver, which may who may cause a car crash. A virus which may inside a computer to decide if an agent is a threat to a network or a system. We need to understand what are the assets in this network or a system. Therefore, to identify all threats, we need an asset. And once we. Prioritize all the assets and then analyze all negative impacts against these assets.

An asset inventory is a list of all assets in an organization. It shall include hardware, software, applications, customer data, and so on. About all these assets. We need to understand what are the most valuable assets. This may include IP intellectual property. It may include some trade secrets. Credit card payment information. And sometimes pot pie data. The pie. That here means personally identifiable information. This part is composed of a first name for the license and so on. The threats can be classified into known threats. Unknown threats. Advanced persistent threats.

No threats can be a malware which has a unique virus signature. Unknown threats normally means very new threats, which cannot be detected by any antivirus software yet. Sometimes people also call this zero day threats. APD means the threat, which involves a long term effort to gather information. Compromise a system to cause more severe damages.

While a vulnerability is a weakness in a system or a network that allows a threat source to compromise its security. For example, an updated firmware in hardware. An unlocked computer which can be stolen easily. A poorly designed software. A careless employee who doesn't properly log out from a critical financial data management system. These are all weakness.

Which I mean, all this weakness may be exploited by us. Threat actor.

Exploits are the process or behavior of engaging in threatening the vulnerabilities. Risks are relevant to the probability that a threat. Exploiting a vulnerability. And also the impact of this exploit.

More specifically. Risks can be calculated by the probability times impact. Here, the likelihood is large. If there is a vulnerability. And at the same time a threat actor who is able to exploit this vulnerability. For example, there is a careless employee who saved his password in an open file. And at the same time there is a hacker who tries to hack into this employee's computer. As such, the password in that unencrypted file. In this case, the likelihood of the hacker hacking into this computer is very high, and the impact is also severe because this employee is a financial officer, so the risks can be very high. From this picture we can see the hacker is a threat agent who gives rise to a threat to this employees company. When this hacker is able to exploit the bad habit of this careless employee who is the weakness in this company. And then this exploit can lead to risks.

The risk can damage the assets in the company. Which is the financial management, uh, financial data management system. This can cause an explosion, exposure of the important data. A secret officer then needs to find a safeguard to protect the assets against the threat. Therefore, here are the three questions again. Which one is a threat? Which one is a vulnerability? Which one is an exploit? Can you pause the video and have a think about these questions?

So here are the answers. I hope you got all of them right.

We can reformulate the cybersecurity risk model into a old model. Um, it's short for motivation. Motivation is linked to threat actors. A man's ability. Ability relative to exploit. Oh is opportunity, which links to vulnerabilities. In reality when an attacker has motivations and the ability. At the same time, this attacker finds a vulnerability existed in the system or the network. Which means an opportunity, um, to launch a tech. Then adding all these three factors together would result in risks.

This male model is famous in this area, which normally indicates three factors that influence consumer behavior. In cybersecurity. This model can also explain why cybercrime exists in our world. In this theory, motivation influenced behavior with ability and opportunity as moderating. Influence of factors.

When motivation, opportunity and ability exist at the same time, there must be a resulting behavior. Which explains why does cybercrime always exist in our cyberspace? So in this course, we will learn how to identify cyber attacks and how to protect our cyber space.