Now let's look at different types of network attacks. The first time is packet sniffing. Sniffing is a data interception technology. It is to capture and analyze the packets through traffic control devices. Anyone can try to capture and analyze the packets. Internet service provider such as Telstra, Optus can the government can advertisment companies can. The bad guys can also sniff packets.

The network administrator can use this technology as a network protocol analyzer or troubleshooting. Cool. Such as to identify congested links. Identify applications that generate the most traffic. Collect data for predictive analysis. Highlight network peaks and troughs in network demand. However, the bad guy can also launch attacks based on the stolen information such as email attachments, company files, and so on.

Especially when there are free packet sniffing tools available. Anyone can try to steal information through sniffing packets. This picture shows a tree sniffing to Wireshark. In this course we will introduce how to use it and analyze packets.

Package spoofing is a technique used to create IP packets with a false. Source IP address. The goal is to disguise the origin of the packet. Impersonate another device or users and then launch an attack. It's a fundamental technique in many network based attacks.

AARP spoofing attack is to spoof the original physical address link to an IP address. IP spoofing is to spoof an IP address. Email spoofing is to cheat on the email address.

Here is an example of DNS spoofing. DNS is stop for domain name server. When we put the google.com in our browser. The Chrome or IE explorer browser cannot understand human language, so it doesn't know what Google means. There is a translator to translate the human language to an IP address, which is like an internationally recognized address, so that you can be brought to Google's site. So DNS is actually this translator. Think that spoofing works like when you enter a web of website URL that is google.com. The DNS translator tells you a different address, so you are there two. A spoofed domain instead of a Google. This is a popular way for attackers to spread worms and viruses into networks. The TCP IP protocol is the protocol to get our network running properly. Nowadays.

There are lots of attacks to this network protocol. We will introduce this attack in details in Network Security part.

Dios did not have service or de Dios. This reputed denial of service attacks based on it spoofing, the attacker can send a packet with a spoofed IP address. Which belongs to victims. To a bunch of computers. And then this computer thought that request was from attack from this victim. So they will reply to the victim. And this time we can also control a set of computers to send packets with spoofed IP address, and then to a bunch of other computers. Like this picture shows. We can call this set of computers bots. Attacker and bots. Send packages to different receivers and let the receiver believe it's the victim who sent in those packets. Then these receivers thought the reply should be sent back to the victim. So this victim can receive very large volume of response. If this victim is a company server, then during the time of receiving huge number of replies from different computers, this company server will stop responding to any other enquiry. This is one of the DOS attack launched based on ICMP request and reply packet spoofing. In this course, more detailed network attacks will be introduced in that security part. So we just have a brief review on network attacks.