Now let's look at how modern symmetric encryption works.

The modern cryptography is not based on simple transposition and substitution anymore. It needs to find the safer way to prevent the third party eavesdropping. Therefore, the modern cryptography used xor our operation with a key. Remember, all calculations in computers are based on binary calculation. Only two numbers are involved in calculation here zero and one. Let's first look at how XOR works. A and B are two inputs. The output is O when a and b are 0 or 1. At the same time, the output is zero. When A and B are different zero 1 or 1 zero, the output will be one. So that means when n b are different, the output is always one. Otherwise, if the and b are the same, the output is always zero.

So in this encryption example, the original message xor r with the key generates the ciphertext C here. Any two different digits generate a one the same digits or generate zero. So we can get 10010010.

This XOR operation has the following properties. A xor ah with zero equals to a itself. A xor r with one will equals to the negative a. If a xor a itself, the output is always zero. From the right calculator, you can see any two sim digit XOR will generate zero. Which is what a XOR itself will equal to zero. The last property here is xor. Ah is like adding operation. The bracket here doesn't matter, so the order of calculation can be changed.

In this encryption process. Um xor k will equal to ciphertext. And decryption process. We need the same key used encryption process to do XOR. One more time. Again you can see the same digits generate zero. Otherwise it's a one. So then we have ciphertext and then the same key as the encryption key. And we shall get 01001011 which is exactly the same as the original message. Before we encrypt. Why can we get original message by doing another type of XOR? The reason is m xor k equals to c and that xor k again is actually this operation here because of the last property. We can do k xor our k at first, and xor k itself equals to a zero. So this part equals to zero. And then we are doing m.

XOR with this zero. So that should equals two um itself due to the first property. Yeah. So now you can see we ask all XOR operation. Um XOR with k will equal to the ciphertext. And then in the decryption side we can do a ciphertext XOR our k. Again we can generate original and encrypted message to ensure the encryption and decryption 100% safe from being eavesdropped by the third party. The key here is the key. Theoretically, the key should be a random series of number which cannot be cracked by the third party. So the key needs to be in the same lengths of the plaintext and can only be used once. This is not practical at all. In reality, we cannot have a truly random number. If we can let the sender and receiver share the key securely, we should be able to exchange the message securely. Then the encryption and decryption are not necessary. Therefore, how to design a practical key and secure the encryption process. Uh, what we need to solve here.

Here is how the actual symmetric encryption works. The symmetric encryption means the key for encryption and decryption are the same. We have explained why we need the same key to encrypt and decrypt. All operations of encryption and decryption are based on XOR operation. Any message XOR key twice will give the original message. Here is how block cipher works in practice. The key is in fixed lengths. The original message is drop is chopped into the same lengths as the key. For example, M is chopped into M1, M2, M3 and two M6. If M6 doesn't have enough legs. Some padding will be added to. Make this M6 to be in the same next as the key. Then each chopped message will be xor r with a key. Here so the ciphertext text obtained. In the decryption side, the receiver ciphertext will be XLR. With the key again, and then the plan text M should be obtained.

Above. Block cipher encryption mode is called electronic codebook mode. Which is the simplest the symmetric encryption mode. This mode allows parallel encryption, which means original message dropped into blocks, and blocks can do bitwise XOR operation at the same time. So the speed of this encryption is very fast. However, if there are two blocks, including the same binary zero one plaintext, the output ciphertext will also be the same. So after encryption, you may find some pattern of original text and deduce if original m1 and m2 are the same or not.

For decryption because again, this ciphertext can be zeroed with a key at the same time, so the decryption can also be done in parallel. The decryption speed is also very fast. Let's see this example. This picture can be represented in the binary code. The increase of the picture by ECB mode. Electronic codebook mode. Is in the middle. As you can see, due to the identical blocks will use identical cipher texts. So the pattern of the original picture can be found in this encryption picture. So the confidentiality of this original message isn't perfectly protected. This mode is vulnerable to replay attack. Replay attack means an attacker who intercepts a valid message can reset that message as many times as they want. For example, if an attacker sniff packets during a wire transfer transaction, he knows which ciphertext is to log into a bank account. He can do the whole ciphertext of that logging message. He doesn't need to decrypt the message to get the logging password. He just tries to pass the encrypted ciphertext of logging message to the bank system, and may get logged in by this way. This is a replay attack. This ECB mode is vulnerable to this replay attack. The usual way to defend against this attack is to include some kind of unique identifier, or a timestamp in each message, so that the recipient can detect a repeated message. The messages should also be protected against modification using a message authentication code. So that attacker cannot simply change the ID or timestamp. We have discussed the fundamental operation of modern symmetric encryption, XOR, and introduced a simple encryption mode ECB mode. There are advantages and disadvantages for this ECB mode. It's fast and can be done in parallel. However, confidentiality is not kept very well here and it's susceptible to replay attack. We will discuss other symmetric encryption methods in lecture time which can protect the penguin picture perfectly. Like the right picture here. We will also discuss how symmetric encryption can be applied in real life.