This topic is classical cryptography.

Classical cryptography is based on transposition and substitution. It was initially created before transmitting the secret message in the military field. You may have seen this in movies where the original message was mapped to a mystery. One or letters or part of letters were replaced by other letters. This replacement rule may be just simply shifting to the right or left by a few positions, such as. The example shows two keys wish to buy a secret gift for their mom. So when the boys send the message to his sister, he used the key to shift the right by three letters to send the message where the message is shown as e, x, p, D, q and something. When this girl received the message, she shifts each letter back by three letters. Then she can read the message is by an earring. Of course, to know what the secret message is. These two keys need to share the key so that they can be the message. In mathematical form, these e m n means to encrypt the message m by shifting and letters. Then the encryption message becomes C cipher. The receiver can use d, C and function to decrypt it, which means the reverse shifting back. This is as simple as the cipher which was created by Casio. So it was called a Casio cipher. The genius cipher is applying a more complicated shifting and replacing rule, such as the key here 0351. This means to shift the first letter by zero position and the second letter by three position and third letter by third position, and the fourth letter by one position. Then decryption is to do the reverse with the key known beforehand. Now let's imagine the encrypted message can be heard by a third party saying someone trying to break the code.

Because all this classical cryptography methods um, depending on substitution and transposition. So this is a possible way to break it.

In English language. Some letters are used more frequently than other letters. Some existing research has concluded. Uh. Frequency analysis result. In this picture you can see a frequency of all 26 letters. He has been used the most frequently. T is next to frequently used. The letter A is the next.

Letter Z is the list of frequently used letter. If we have an encrypted message, we can also try to use this frequency analysis to break it.

Especially if the ciphertext amount is large enough, we shall get very close frequency to the actual English letters frequencies. Under the assumption that mono alphabetic substitution cipher is used here, a mono alphabetic substitution is a cipher in which each occurrence of plaintext symbol is replaced by a corresponding ciphertext symbol. To generate the cipher text. For poly alphabetic substitution cipher. We have to combine the frequency analysis and also some other knowledge to decrypt the code together. Let's see one example here. I have copied one paragraph of cipher text from a workshop instruction document for you to decrypt, and this paragraph is a cipher text. I copy that paragraph to this website. Let's now go to this website to have a look.

This paragraph has been copied here and we can click Find Frequencies.

And then scroll down. You should be able to see a frequency analysis was done for the paragraph given in that text box.

Above role gives the frequency of all letters in English language and the given paragraph. This is the frequency analysis for the given paragraph, and in that paragraph S is the most frequently used. The letter and z is least, and also T the least frequently used the letters.

According to the rule of English frequency English letters frequency. It's very likely this encrypted S should be originally letter E, and also very likely this O should be originally uh t, so we can try this substitution. To see whether this description makes sense or not. So we can put E here and then T here.

And then scroll up.

We say make substitution. Once you make those substitution, you can see the original intercept for decryption has been. Change to this one.

And those small letters. Here are your decrypted letter from original letter in ciphertext. So original letter has been now um correct to E and then also T here, which was O. And now we have replaced by T. And those capital letter are the letter we haven't decrypted.

And this. This mapping is not necessary to be 1 to 1 back. Um, for example, if we replace g by a, which actually doesn't make sense for our ciphertext. The main reason is our paragraph is not very big. Paragraph is just such a small paragraph for description, right? So the frequency analysis may not be very accurate to the original, um, English language frequency, which is why we have to combine, uh, this frequency analysis and also our knowledge about the English words and then see which one, which replacement should be more meaningful. After a little bit observation we might be able to see this t I e and I e has been used a quite lot. And then we can also use this count. Try graphs and counting uh digraph. And which actually gives you the most common um combination for su. Let us together. So t h e has been used very frequently in English language. And then our combination in ciphertext is 0IS. So it's very likely that O is t s is E which we have done this and I should be h. So we can do that kind of substitution and see whether that makes sense or not. So you can see that I might be h. Right. So it's very likely I is h. So we can replace that I by h. So that's.

What we can try here. And then you should be able to see or this okay replacement. And then actually that should make sense in our um decryption process. And then we can also see some counting digraph and see whether we have more clues like t-h. And we have had uh oh I, I is h we have found that one. And then there should be other combination. We might uh, which might help us to find clues. Um, for example, this t j uh, should be 2GO right. Which may make sense here. So we can try that. T o um, and g originally should be um o number. And from the frequency analysis we can see O is the force frequency. Use the letter. Although, um it's here the g the matches certainly frequently use the letter. So they are very close. They frequency of use have been very close here. So this g original should be um o and then we can do a make substitution.

And then after that, you might find more clues. Uh, according to English combination like 1FE, which might be one o and e, right. So f should be replaced by n, and we can do this substitution again to find the original Pentax. So now you can see the frequency analysis really help us to make um those substitution and find the original plaintext. And in this way we shall be able to find the original letter in the cipher text.

So this is a way to show you how, through this analysis can help to crack this classic cipher. But this also shows that classical cipher based on substitution and transposition is not very safe. This is also why the modern cipher, um, when we talk about more than cipher, talking about symmetric encryption and symmetric encryption, which are not based on this transposition and substitution anymore.