Today's topic is about the Hellman algorithm. The Hellman algorithm is proposed by. Whitfield and Martin Hellman. This algorithm allows two parties to generate shared secret key. Remember, in symmetric encryption, we want two parties to share a symmetric key first before encryption can actually happen. But how? Two parties can share a key without meeting in person beforehand, or involving the third party to distribute it to them? Here. Heilman algorithm allows a magic solution that two parties can generate the same number without involving the third party. So the beauty of the Helen algorithm lies in its ability to create a secret key exchange mechanism without the need for the parties to meet in person or share a secret beforehand. It includes this text. So firstly, both parties agree on public parameter and then the generate a private key which is only known by themselves. And thirdly, they will compute the public key and exchange these public key. And then finally they do some calculation on their own side by using their own private key number and the exchanged number to generate the same key. And you can see here 18 is the secret shared by these two people, but they haven't asked for help from any other third party.

So this can't solve the problem here. Alice and Bob. They want to share a common secret, but this common secret is not known by anyone else. So this common secret is number 18. And this key can be used as a symmetric key for either this or triple Des in our symmetric cryptography. So now let's look at how each step works. So the first step two public parameters will be agreed upon by two parties. And this value can be shared openly. And here again we're using the simple number to do the calculation. Actually, this number can be very large. Let's assume Alice and Bob. They both agree on using number seven and 23. So this is the first step for this and Hellman algorithm. And then the next step is for Alice and Bob. They will pick up their own private key. Alice pick up number three. Bob pick up number six. And they will keep this number as a private key. And they won't share with each other or share with any third party. So this is their second step. And then the third step is for each party to compute their public key. Alice will calculate her public key by using seven, which is a public parameter, base number seven to the power of her own private key number three, and modulo by 23. 23 is a number shared beforehand. And then she calculated a result, which is 21. Then she sent this 21 to Bob at the same time. In both sides, Bob will calculate by using seven to the power of six is his private number modulo by 23, and then he gets a full number and this phone number is sent to Alice. So these two public keys, 21 and four, are exchanged over the public channel. The last step is for Alice and Bob and themselves to calculate the shared secret. So in early site, Alice received a full number from Bob. So Alice will use four to the power of her private number three and modulo by 23, which is initially shared number, and then she gets uh 18 number. Similarly, in Bob site, Bob receives 21. So Bob will calculate 21 to the power of six. Which is his private number and the modulo by 23. He can also get a number 18. And in this way you can see Alice uses Bob's public key, shared by Bob and her own private key three, and she generates a secret number 18. Bob can also use Alice Public Key, which is 21, and his own private key number six. So he can generate a secret 18. These two secrets are exactly same.

So untrue. Now you can see without involving the third party, all without meeting in person beforehand. These two people in virtual space can share the same secret.

Now let's look at this Hellman key exchange process, whether the security can be guaranteed. If there is a person in the middle called if and then if can hear all the communication between Alice and Bob can even do this 18 number, which is meant to be a common secret only known to Alice and Bob, whether Eve can get this number 18. So during this exchanging process, what Eve has heard is number seven and 23, and Eve can also hear this public key exchanging process. So he gets number 21 at number four.

If doesn't know the private number picked up by Alice. And also Eve doesn't know the number six which was chosen by Bob. And Eve knows the theoretical part of the Hellman calculation, so he knows some modulo calculation was done. He has heard the number 21. Let's assume that's a year, right? So and he's also know that a number which is 21 and Eve knows g number and p number. But if doesn't know that x number x is the private number picked up by Alice, which was in that power position here.

So for Alice to calculate her secret or her public key and what she can do, she is doing this modular calculation, which is very easy for Alice to um, derive from g x p because x is known by Alice herself, and so she can derive a very easily. But for Eve, her work is to guess what is the number x? So when Eve tries to calculate from a to x, by which I mean from this equation Eve knows 21, Eve no seven and 23. Eve tries to guess what's the number here? Okay, what's the power number there? So from A to X, where Eve actually couldn't easily get that power number there. So that Direction's derivation is very hard. If Eve doesn't know the number x or has no way to derive the number x power the power number here. So Eve can never guess. Was there common secret k? So if won't be able to derive. Number 18. Without knowing the power number there.

The decent helmet algorithm has been widely used in various cryptography protocols, including SSL, TLS, which is a very popular security protocol in internet communication, and also VPN Virtual Private Network protocol, and also secure messaging applications. So in summary, decent Hellman algorithm is a cornerstone of modern cryptography, enabling secure key exchanges in an increasingly digital world. Its reliance on mathematic principles ensures that even when communications occur over a secure channel, the confidentiality of the exchange key can be maintained. Understanding the different Hellman algorithm is essential for anyone interested in the field of cyber security and cryptography.