Now let's learn RSA algorithm.

The RSA algorithm is a widely used public key cryptography system that ensures secure data transmission and digital signatures. It's named after this three inventors. We will learn how to generate the key first, and then we will learn how to use the key to the encryption and decryption.

The RSA algorithm involves generating a pair of keys, a public key, and the private key. The public key is shared openly while the private key is kept secret. The security of our algorithm is based on the difficulty of factorizing, the product of two large prime numbers.

The first step in Qi generation is to select two large prime numbers, p and q.

I wish to demonstrate all these steps. I'm using two small prime numbers to show the results. So let's assume P and Q uh, two on the seven.

And then after we have these two prime numbers we will calculate the product. So n equals to p times q. So n equals to two times seven which is 14. And v is another product. And we will calculate here which is p minus one times q minus one. So which is two minus one which is one and q minus one which is six. So which is why we equals to six.

To announce to this that determined public exponent, which is the number of feet.

Based on this condition, here we need to choose the odd integer e, which is prime to v and satisfies v modulo by e equals to one. So this modular calculation is to calculate the remainder.

So that means which number E can satisfy this condition? The remainder is one. If we calculate from one, two three and two five, and then we can get the remainder to be one. Because you can see six divided by five equals to one and the remainder is one.

So the public key should be e and n, the e must be five, and then public key is five, 14, 14 is the initial number n given here. And the next step is to calculate the number d. So to get to number d we have to satisfy this condition which is three times the number e modulo five. And then remainder should be one. So here the e shouldn't be equal to d because the d meant to be a private number and the e meant to be a public number, which is why these should be a different number from E, and this D and will be used as a private key. So that means we need to find uh number D here which times five and then divided by the number V which is six here. So the remainder must be one. So we can start from one two and three. And we can calculate which number D can get this remainder to be one. So after a bit searching you can see 11 times five divided by six equals to nine. And the remainder is one. So we will actually get the private key to be 11 and 14. So now you can see after a big calculation, according to the above algorithm we can get the public key is 514 and private key is 1114. And then we will have the public key shared by all people but 11. That number D here is kept privately. Maybe at this point you might question how the number can be kept privately. Can we deduce the number 11 if we know five and 14. Because these two number are shared publicly. How can we make sure that 14 and five won't allow the derivation of the number d? So let's look at the calculation again. If we know n right n is 14. So we can factorize 14 to be two prime number which are p and q right. So 14 equals to two times seven. And now we can get a p and a q to be two and seven. And v equals to p minus one times q minus one which we can get v equals to six. And then because we already know that e number is public. So v six modular by five. And we can get the remainder is one. So according to this step if we know the number n then we can actually derive the public key number to be five. And then we know how to generate a private number d which must satisfy this condition. So which number d times five modulo five six here. And the remainder should be one. And it's very easy to derive d is 11.

So in this case if a number is 14 we can easily get the public key and also derive the private key. Because for this key generation we meant to use the public key to do encryption. And then we're using the private key to do a decryption. But if the private key can be derived very easily, and then we can use this private key to do a decryption. So this makes our AI as the algorithm not safe. But remember, I only demonstrate this calculation by using a small number because it's easy to do so in reality. RSA actually using very large number to calculate the private key and the public key. So how US can make itself safe, which is actually based on the difficulty of factorizing the product of two large prime numbers for number 14. It's very easy to calculate the factors which can be a two and seven, which are two prime numbers, right? However, for a large number, it's harder to get the factors for that number. You can think about one example number 319. It takes a bit longer to find the vectors for 319. But of course 319 is not that hard, so it's still a reasonable small number. And we can actually, after a bit, um, try. We can get. It's the product of 11 times 29.

And you can imagine if we have a number which is in the scale of millions, and then it must take a long time to find the factors for that number. So the number here we're talking about the product of two large prime numbers, which are actually, um, in the size of thousand bits. So how big that number is. I'll give you a bit calculation here so that you have an idea about how big that number is. So that number two to the power of thousand can be written in two to the power of ten, and then bracket to the power of 100. So two to the power of ten, which can be written in um. 1024. So this number is approximately ten to the power of three. So we have that number to be written in ten to the power 300. So. Which means when we talk about the factorizing, the product of two, um, large prime number, we are actually trying to find the factors, two factors for a number in this size. So that means we're actually having a number in that size to replace 14. So in that case we really can't find the factors in a very reasonable time. Okay. To to be a product of two prime numbers. This is how I see the algorithm itself save. Therefore, in reality we can calculate. N by using p times q. So we can assume p and q other big. And then. However, without knowing p and q we only know n here. And it's so hard to factorizing and into p and q. So this P and Q are the other number I've given in our workshop for you to do a Q generation and P and Q are both 32 digits, uh, as the hexadecimal number, where if we represent that one in binary code and it will be 128 bits. Okay. We just do a lot smaller than actual number we are using to keep our algorithm safe. So for the people who are using RSA algorithm to generate their private key, they can have p and q and calculate n, and then they can derive their own private key number d. But for the bad people, if they only know a number okay, which is a product of that P and q, it's so hard for them to find the factors. And from N without knowing what actually P and Q are right. So from N they can't derive p and q, and then they can't derive the number through RSA algorithm. So this is how RSA algorithm can be safe and can defend against the uh, hacking of those that people. So now let's see how that RSA algorithm generated public key and private key can be used for encryption and decryption. So let's um, use this process, okay. To explain, um, the applications in that case where eBay allows every customer to encrypt his credit card information. But eBay is the only one who can read that credit card information. So let's assume number two is one of the numbers in a customer's credit card, right? So number two the message should be encrypted so that what we do is okay for the encryption side for the client side the customer side. And number two is calculated by um power five. So two to the power of five and the modulo by 1414. Is that a number. And then we can get the result four okay. Number four. So you can use a calculator to try. So this should be four. And instead of sending that original credit card number two to eBay, we actually are now sending number four to eBay because that's an encrypted credit card information. And then after eBay received that number, eBay has his own private key. And this key is only known by eBay, right? No, nobody else knows this private number. So eBay is the only one who can read that credit card information. So what eBay did for the decryption is using this calculation four to the power of 11 modulo by number n 14, and then to get the remainder. Remainder is number two. So that is actually your um, I mean eBay's customer's original credit card number. So this is how eBay can read the credit card information and charge the credit card. And then but no one else can do that. And the public key can't be used for decryption, although we all have the public key. But everyone can use public key to do an encryption, but the decryption must be done by a private key. RSA algorithm has been used in many different areas such as secure communication, digital signatures, and key exchange. We will discuss more applications in our election. Time to see how public key and the private key combined together can help in different scenarios.