What is the hash function? A hash function is a mathematical algorithm that transforms an input or a message into a fixed size string of bytes, typically represented as a hexadecimal number. The output, known as the hash value or hash code, is unique to each unique input. We normally call that one to be a digital fingerprint of a piece of data. Hash functions are designed to be fast and efficient, allowing for quick data processing and retrieval. To design such a hash function. This function should be deterministic, which means a function will always produce the same output for the same input. This property ensures consistency in data representation and then, regardless of the size of the input data, the output hash value will always have a fixed length. And this hash function should be computationally infeasible to reverse engineer the original input from its hash value. So that means it's a one way function. It's easier to calculate y from x, but if we know why it's very hard to find x. This property is crucial for maintaining data confidentiality.

A good hash function should be collision resistance, which means this good hash function minimizes the chance of two different inputs producing the same hash output. While collision can theoretically occur. A strong hash function makes them extremely unlikely. And there should be as a launch effect for a hash function, which means a small change in the input. Even a single bit should produce a significantly different hash output. This property ensures that similar inputs do not yield similar hash values. Every hash function involves quite complicated inverse operations, and we can use hash function to provide data integrity and also protect against unauthorized access and temporary. This picture shows how MD5 hash function works, and this is just one operation of MD5 and actual MD5. It consists of 64 of these operations. Assumption here is based on this calculation for B, C and D where each one of them is a 32 bit.

And then m I. Here denotes a 32 bit block of message input and key denotes a 32 bit constant which is different for each operation. And then this sum means the shifting left by s places again as varies for each operation. And then this sign. This operation denotes addition modulo. We actually don't need to remember how this MD5 hash works, and in practice we actually only need one single command md5 sum. We can generate a MD5 hash which is in 128 bits from any message. Here is an example of the MD5 hash result, which is in 128 bits. And then there are some other hash functions. Secure shell algorithm 1 or 2, five, six and which actually generate different size of hash results. MD5 hash function is a very early one which has been found freezing resistance broken. This means people has found some examples that different input will generate the same hash, although that taste doesn't happen very often. Thus, two people found that plagiarism broken and Sha one is a later version hash function that was designed in 1995. It has been found collision resistant weekend, so this means the probability of finding a collision is small, but that probability is not negligible. And then Sha two family is relatively, uh, stronger than previous two. Sha three function is a little member of Sha family of standards, which was released in um 2015 when these two typical different hash function will compare and you can see MD5 function is a faster and it generates a smaller size of hash result. But for the Sha family it is more secure and the hash result is longer and no matter which hash function is used. In reality, we can combine this hash function together with RSA or different algorithm to guarantee data integrity. Um, but for authentication purpose hash function can also guarantee the confidentiality of the password.