Let's look at what method has been used in ss h authentication. SS h is a portable used to securely connect to remote machines over an unsecured network. It encrypts the data exchanged between the client and the server, protecting it from a loss, dropping and tampering. SSA h has been widely used for remote logging, remote server management via transfers and secure communications, and also execution of commands on remote systems. There are two types of authentication which are available for use here. Password based authentication and public key authentication. Password based authentication just means a client needs to provide the correct combination of some keys, and then the server would provide access to this client for the public key authentication. Actually use the public key in private key and RSA algorithm. And then it can provide higher security through these keys. Public key based authentication has been used in the Secure Shell protocol to enhance security by eliminating password vulnerabilities. And it can also provide convenience because the users don't have to remember all those passwords. And then it provides the data protection because all the data transmission during this SSL protocol transmission is encrypted. This also prevents unauthorized access to remote server. So how this public key based authentication works in SS age protocol. There must be some steps before we can actually authenticate a client to a server. So this page shows you how to set up ss h key authentication. The first step is to generate keys. The key pair here means a public key and private key pair need to be generated in this step. And then the next step is to copy that public key to the server. And this step shown here is actually um activity in our workshop. And you need to get the public key copied from the client to the server and stored in this file. And then we can test the connection through ss h connect to the server. And then you could see there's no password required for your logging. What has happened behind the scene is this. Following steps. Initially, a client will request for an ss h connection to the server. And remember, before we initiate this request, there has been some presentiment for the key where the client has generated a key pair, and that public key has been transmitted to the remote server and also stored in this place. So the server has already has the public key which belongs to that client. After this client initiate that SSA request, the server will generate a random number and attach with a session ID, and this message will be encrypted by using that client public key and send back to the client. And at the same time, the server side will keep an undefined hash from this random number and session is. And when this flight received that encrypted random number and ID, the client can use the private key decrypt to get the clear number, and then at the same time, the client can also generate an undefined hash based on the random number the session id.

And then after having that clear number and hash values. And this client will use his own private key to do an encryption again. So that MD5 hash value was encrypted by using this client private key. And then that encryption message was sent back to the server. So this is the received MD5 hashed value by the server. And then what this server would do.

This server will decrypt this MD5 hash by using that client public key, which has been stored in that file before.

So then he should get this clear MD5 hash value. And at this step. Because this server has ever kept that hash value before he sent to the client. So he has a value in his place. And then he will compare that value and this decrypted value from, um, client. If these two values are exactly the same. So the server knows that client must have the private key, which is only known by this client himself. And then this is why the server can use that public key which is associated with that private key, and then can use that one for decryption. And you can imagine there is a man in the middle. What these men can hear from this process, so he probably can hear there was some initial request from the client to the server. And this man can also hear some encrypted message, um, from the server to the client. And then, however, because that man in the middle doesn't have these private key, so the man in the middle can't read the courier number at this stage. And then later this man can also hear some of the message from the client to the server. And that man in the middle, if he has the public key of that client, and then he can read the message. However, that number really wasn't something which needs to be kept confidential. So although he can read probably by using, uh, some public key to read the number doesn't matter. It won't affect how this server authenticates that client.

Only that client who can reach that hash value and then can encrypt by using his own private key, will be recognized by the server as the right person, so the server can launch access to this client. Although this may in a minor who probably has that client public key and he can read, he won't be able to encrypt by using this client private key and sent to the server. This person in the middle can impersonate this client to request access. So above his age. Authentication process has actually used our concepts in the lecture. Private key for encryption and public key for decryption. Then the server can also indicate the client is the right one. So with this authentication you can see the user identity can be verified very securely. No one else can impersonate that client. And the access to some remote server. And these provide the best practice for optimal secure implementation. Whether you are managing a single server or entire fleet of machines. SS age authentication is a fundamental skill for any IT professional. So let me summarize this ss h authentication A key pair public and private key pair was generated. And then the public key was stored in the server. Before we can actually use this way to authenticate a client. And then when a user attempts to connect, the server will challenge the client to provide possession of the private key so that the server can verify this client identity.