Access control models are essential frameworks that dictate how resources and information are accessed and managed within the system. They play a crucial role in ensuring security, privacy and compliance in various environments, from corporate networks to cloud services.

There are four different models. Discretionary access control is a type of access control with owner of a resource has the authority to determine who can access it different from the AC model. Make it mandatory. Access control enforces strict access based on clearance level.

There are also role based access control and attribute based access control, where role based access control is based on roles assigned to users, while attribute based access control determines access based on users attribute and context, and discretionary access control permissions are assigned based on the identity of the user and can be modified by a resource owner. A very typical example for the AC is personal computers, which run in Linux, Windows, or Mac OS. Will you share a file to someone by setting its permission to be editable by others who are using this? The AC model. When you allow an app to access to your location, you also granting access to the app on platforms like Facebook or Instagram. You control who can see your posts, who can comment, and who can share your content. This is also using the AC model.

This model is flexible and user friendly, but can lead to security risks if not managed properly, as users may grant access to unauthorized individuals. Mandatory access control is a more stringent model, where access rights are regulated by a central authority based on predefined policies. In Mac, users cannot change access permission. Instead, access is determined by the classification of the information and the user's security clearance level. This model is also used in environments that require high security, such as military and government.

Here is one example. A system access control policy creates different security clearance levels and associating objects in the system with one of these security levels. Every object may be assigned a label such as unclassified, confidential, secret, top. Secret, accessible with subject on clearance is denied. If a senior engineer has secret level clearance, he can access all subjects in secret, confidential and unclassified level, but not the subjects in top secret level. So this model provides a higher security than the AC model and reduced risks of human error. But it involves complex implementations and higher admin overhead.

Role based access control assigns permissions based on the roles that users have within an organization. Instead of assigning permissions to individual users, access rights are associated with roles and users are assigned to these roles. This model simplifies management and enhances security by ensuring that users only have access to the information necessary for their job functions. For example, c o can access all resources, but an accountant can only access financial database.

A user is granted access according to his actual role in this company. Attribute based access control is also known as policy based access control or rule based access control. This model is a method of implementing access control policies that is highly adaptable and can be customized using a wide range of attributes, making it suitable for use in distributed or rapidly changing environments. It is a more dynamic and fine grained access control model that evaluates attributes of users, resources, and the environment to make access decisions. For example, some rule can be set based on a particular attribute only send email when the size is less than five megabytes.

This model allows for complex policies that can consider various factors such as users roles, resource classification, and environmental conditions, providing a high level of flexibility and security. However, it requires a more complex implementation and involves policy management challenges.

Let's look at one case study regarding role based access control and attribute based access control in the movie database Management system. The left one is the role based access control model. The right one is attribute based access control model, and in Rbac model it gives a user different roles adult, juvenile and child and gives these roles. According to this, users age and then access is granted based on these three different roles and the right one. Advocacy model. In this model, a very detailed rule is created where it describes the access can be granted if the attributes satisfy certain conditions.

So there are three conditions here. If your age is greater than 17 and then the movie rate belongs to all three and you can access. Or if your age is between 13 and 17 and the movie rate uh PG 13 and G level and you can access otherwise if your age is less than 13 and the movie rate is G and you can access. So there are three rules defined in this Abac model.

So now let's consider if we have two more attributes in this movie database user level and movie release date. Then how should we define these access control rules for role based access control model and also attribute based access control model? So for role based access control model and original three roles will have to be doubled. Number of roles. And the permissions grows actually exponentially as the number of attributes increases. So now we have to define adults with premium membership, can access something with any release date and accept adult with regular membership. And then juvenile wisdom premium and regular membership in the keys with premium membership and regular membership. So we have to define the rules according to the role and also newly added attributes. So you can see these are the change we have to do for the role based access control model. In previous slides, you can see that role based access control model has only three roles. And then the rules. The number of rules is quite simple. Um, but now with the new um attributes added, we have to have double rules for that role based access control model. Now let's move to the attribute based access control model.

And that is the rule we have set for the attribute based control model. Previously. And now with two new attributes we can add some rules here. So the first rule we can add is the membership is premium or the membership in regular and movies on release. And we can access. Right. And then the rule three is when rule one and two are satisfied together. And then we can access. So. In this APAC model, we have had two new rules created for this exact control model. And then we don't need to change our original first rule of. Because this Abac model is more clearly defined with a finer grained policy. So when there's a change to our database system, and then this new rule can be added to adapt to this change. So now I hope you can understand better on these different models.

Access control models are fundamental to maintaining security and managing access to resources in various environments. Understanding the differences between CAC, Macie, Rbac and Abac is crucial for organizations to implement the most appropriate model for their specific needs by selecting the right access control model. Organizations can enhance their security posture, protect sensitive information, and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.