Set your idea approach. Set your ID here means set user's ID. This approach is a powerful mechanism in Linux operating systems that allows user to execute a program with the permission of the program's owner, rather than the permissions of the user executing the program. This allows the program to perform actions that the regular user would not normally have permission to execute.

The Linux operating system has two types of ownership the user and group. There are three types of access permissions to different users or groups. Read. Write. Execute. Every file and directory has three levels of permissions for the owner, group, users or other users for a program or a file. RW x means read, write, execute, but for a directory, rw x means different things. So R means we can list contents in that directory. W means we can create and remove files in the directory. X means we can enter that directory and access any files in it. So in that detailed normally the first digit means whether it's a file type or it's a directory type or another type. And then the permissions were read in triplets. So the first triplets here means the owner himself has read, write and execute permissions. And then the second triplet here means read and execute permission. That is for the group owners. And then for other owners. This note read, write or execute permissions. If we find a permission is like r w x r, w x and x. So that means full privilege is available for that file or directory for any type of users. When you are at the approach is used. RW x will become rw s, which means the operating system shall execute that program with the user ID of its owner, not with the user ID of the person who is running that program. So here there are two types of user ID one is the ID of that program's owner, and the other user ID is the normal user who is running that program. To identify these different user IDs. There are real user I.D. which identifies real owner of the process, which means who is running that program. That effective user ID is what the operating system looks at to make a decision whether or not you are allowed to do something. Actual access control is based on you highly effective user ID when a normal program is executed, are you? Either you should be equal to ID they both are the ID of the user who runs the program. But when the set you are, the approach has been applied. Are you ID and you are the you shouldn't be the same value. Are you IDs? Two would be the user's ID, but you ID will be the program owner's ID at this time. If that program is owned by root, and then the program will be run with the root privilege. Here is one example. Password is a program for a user to change his own password. So it has applied set UI the approach. And you can see these are double as here. So this program is owned by root. And then for the root himself he can read write and execute. But for the other users or the group user in root group. And you can execute this program. So for a normal user we belong to this sub triplet permission. And then we can read this program and we can execute this program. But when we as a normal user execute this program, although the real user ID who is running that program is a normal user. But. We are running that program as a root user. So we have been granted the root privilege for the time when we run that program. But how to leave the privilege. But this is your idea approach. There are two steps. The first one is to change the owner to root, and then they can turn on the set UI the bit. So which means we now can lift our privilege after this two steps. Here. Change on means change ownership. And then you can see that my file was created probably by a normal user, but the ownership has been changed to root. And then we can change mode. So which means we can turn on that set you already built by using this number. And then after that you can list the detailed permission. And then you can see these are W.S.. So that means if someone else is running that my file program, if it's a program, he can be granted a root privilege for the period he's running that program. So now let's look at why it's this number 4755 why this number can turn on its set UID bit when we write the permissions. There are three triplets. Yeah. Actually in front of that there is another three digits 000. So the whole access control is through all these numbers.

Will set you ah the approach is not applied. And the first three digits is 000. But when we say we want to turn off the security bit which means the first digit zero will become one, so 000 will become 100. If the permission is r w x r x r x. Which means A111 and r x. We don't have the permission for. Right. For these middle triplets, which is access control for the group owners for the other users. And we also have 101. So all that numbers are binary numbers. And now we need to transfer that binary numbers into a decimal number. We will need to translate each three digits into a decimal number. So then for this 111 when we do a translation and we can write one times. Because the first the very last digit makes two to the power of two. And then so one times two to the power two plus the middle one, which is one times two to the power one. And the last digit means two to the power zero. So one times two to the power zero. And when you add them together you can get seven. So this is how we translate from A111 binary number into a decimal number. And similarly you can also get 101 which should equal to five. And then 100 should be four. So originally we have 0755 permissions for that three different type of user. And now when we try lift the privilege and turn on this set you are the approach. And then we can have the first digit become 100. So from original 0755 now we have 4755. Once we change that number to 4755 which means we have to turn on that set uid it very first bit from 0 to 1. And which is why in the permissions you can see that always. But in the perspective the operating system. So actually he's checking that very first digit whether it's a 1 or 0. So that he knows whether I should regard this program as a privileged program or a normal user privileges program. Of course, we can also change mode to 0755. After you finish that running. So you don't need that program to be a root privileged program. And then you can change the privilege back to a normal user. So with this step that set you are the bit has been turned from 1 to 0. And then when you run this file again. So you will just have a normal user privilege to run that one. So now let's have a look why we need this set UI the approach. And if we have a shadow file which actually store all people's password in Linux operating system. So in that shadow file, if you check its permission in detail, it has the RW dash permission for the root user himself. But if you belong to the group shadow and you can read but you can't write, you can't execute. And then for other user we have dash, dash dash which means we don't have any permission. If we are other user. But this is a password file right. And then if other user needs to change his own password, you just don't have the permission to touch this file because you don't have any permission. You can't read. You can't write. Um, as a normal user, we still need to revise our password. Sometimes. Right. So which is why we need this password. Okay, so in the program, which is a set UID program, this program has our w s. And then this program is owned by root. So which means for a normal user you can also run this program. But when you run that program you will be granted the root privilege temporarily. And then you can then change your password. When you run that program, you will be given the root privilege when you run that program. So you are regarded as a root user when you run that one. And then with that root user privilege, you can temporary. Right. Okay. Because as a root user you can write this shadow file. So when you run that program you are granted the root privilege for the moment you're running that program. And then you can write as a root user temporarily. So this is how we access those protected file such as shadow file, by running a set UID approach so that we can have some privilege of root user or another user. So in this process that set UID has been turned down. And then when we run this password command. And this allows regular users to execute the command with elevated privilege. So that would enable us to modify our own passwords without granting us the full root access. Therefore, this security approach is a valuable tool in Linux operating system that allows for controlled privilege escalation. While it can enhance functionality and user experience, it also poses significant security risks if not managed properly.