Today we will briefly introduce TCP IP model.

A network model is a conceptual framework that breaks down network communication into manageable layers, each responsible for specific tasks. There are two popular models for internet. OSI model is Open System Interconnection model, which includes seven layers. TCP IP network model has four layers, and also some people use a five layer TCP IP model. Both models provide logical ways of networking as well as processing of information using a layer system. In both systems, each layer has a specific function. This makes it easier to pinpoint where issues are occurring in the event of a failure.

The biggest difference between the two models is that OSI model recommends multiple functions that TCP model groups into single layers, such as application layer and TCP. IP model contains three layers outlined in OAC model. TCP IP is a practical model that addresses specific communication challenges and relies on standardized protocols. In contrast, OSI serves as a comprehensive, protocol independent framework designed to describe all forms of network communication. For detailed information about how the network model is defined, please watch the YouTube video in this link, which is marked by Professor Ryan, who has clearly explained and then Hoka model. It's a seven minute video. I'm sure you will understand clearly how an ad hoc model is defined, and the relationship between OAC model and the Tcpip model. The TCP IP model is the model we will discuss in this course. If you don't know anything about TCP IP model, please watch the YouTube video event by Professor Ryan again, through which you can get a clear understanding of all layers in TCP IP model.

There are two important concepts. Segmentation and multiplexing. To compare with posting letter or packages. Segmentation is to divide a big item or data into smaller pieces. Through this layers, the data was encapsulated by adding the information such as where it is from, where should it go to, through which protocol normal mail or express, and then the data and its added information will be loaded into physical transportation links. These letters and packages will need to be put in regular container to maximize the delivery capacity during transportation. This is called multiplexing in internet, like what we did in these shipment containers. When it is delivered, the protocol will distribute the message through reading this nation information. So those protocol in different layers are coordinating each other to complete this delivery task. We now focus on the security issues with TCP IP protocol. Why is it not secure? Because this protocol doesn't have a security design. When it was invented, it was designed for reliable environment. In 1970s, there were no hackers at that time. No one expected the internet would become so popular and have so many users like today. The purpose of TCP IP is to ensure the connectivity among different types of networks, and the systems allows anonymous users, which isn't like the mobile phone service nowadays. We need to link our identity to our mobile number, but there is no enforced link between an IP address and the person's identity. There will many languages use the internet design which will not secure attack tools are available over the internet. Some are even free. All these make internet, IP, TCP, IP protocol very vulnerable. The rapid development of internet has brought security issues. So this is social security model was developed later which focused on security architecture for open systems interconnection. This standard provides a framework for security services and mechanisms to ensure security communication between systems. The five security attributes were considered in different layers. In our class, we will discuss what the security issues there are in each layer and then how those security goals can be achieved through protocols. Design.