Let's look at TCP and UDP protocol.

And transport layer, a long message will be circumvented. For example, an email with a big attachment may be separated to three segments. A sequence number will be attached to each segment to indicate how many segments a total, and this segment is one of three or 2 or 3. The purpose is to tell the recipient there are three segments, or tag them in order. After receiving one of three, two of three, and three of three. There are two ways to establish a communication in this layer TCP and UDP. TCP uses three way handshake. Here is one example. The left machine is the client. He wish to start communication with the right server. He will firstly send the TCP sync synchronization request message, which means a synchronization request with the server. It's like asking can I stop communication with you? If the server is free, he will get his port ready and respond with a single Ack message by saying okay, I'm listening. Then this client will send another acknowledgement Ack message, which means he will confirm he will stop now. This is very much like he wants to talk to his dad, but he will firstly check if his dad is free or not. If his dad says yes, I'm free and then get himself ready to listen to his son. Then this kid clears his throat and says, okay, here. The important thing I want to share with you. Then he will start sharing. So this is a process of a three way handshake in TCP IP protocol. But for UDP, the key will just start the sharing without making sure his dad is free or not. He's maybe busy at that time and doesn't really get the message from his kid. With this different ways of establishing a communication, you can imagine why UDP can offer a faster transmission but not as reliable as TCP protocol.

Here is a Welsh accent package for the sync, synchronisation request and acknowledgement for that synchronization request. And then finally from client to the server, the client acknowledge I received your, um, synchronization SDK message and then I'll start. Right. So that's a typical three way handshake protocol in TCP.

So now let's have a look what security issues that may be for TCP protocol. The first possible attack is to launch lots of seeing requests to the server to keep the server busy. The server sends unpack synchronization message back and reserve his port to listen to the future messages from the attacker. But the attacker never sends back and asserts that message in this relay handshake. So you can see from the client there are a lot of the same requests to the server, and the server will always reply, I got your request and then I'm ready. Then there's not so step, which is actually the last step a secret message back to the server saying, okay, the attacker would not say, I'm uh, I will stop the communication now.

Because the server now has been kept busy. When there's another legitimate user who wishes to connect to this server, the server is occupied and cannot respond to this login user. This forms a denial of service attack to this server using same flat request. This is our first seeing flat case. A way to prevent this attack to the server is to filter out the attacker's IP address. The server won't respond to the specific IP address anymore. So in the second flat case, attacker will spoof his own IP address and then do send lots of requests to the server. But with a spoofed address. Now this. So I cannot recognize the scene requests because they will from different IP addresses. So the server will send sync Ack back. But again the attacker will not send this step Ack back to the server.

Or sometimes attackers send back ache to complete this ruby handshake, but the attacker just doesn't send any data after that. This is our third seam flat case. All of these three different seam flat cases can cause a denial of service attack to the server. We call that the OS attack.

There are also other cases of text. We call them think, attack and reset attack. Normally, when a healthy handshake and communication are completed, a message will be sent to the server so that the server know all messages have completed transmission and then respond with a thin Ack message. However, this could be utilized by attacker. The attacker could send a thing request before a legitimate transmission finishes. The attacker can also send the reset request to the server, so that the server will discard all previously received messages and wait for new start. So now you can see different security issues which may happen to TCP protocol in transport layer.

An attacker can also utilize the vulnerability with TCP protocol to launch a distributed C OS attack. This direct attack here is our sink flat case one, where an attacker directly send lots of sync requests, but do not send an attack after receiving a response from the server. Spoofing attack in the middle is the attacker used the spoofed address to send lots of sing requests. This is our second and third flat cases where attacker either do not send an attack back, or do not send actual data after the three way handshake is completed. If this attacker can control many computers to send sing requests to the server, we call this distributed DDoS attack, which can cause a very severe downtime for the server. UDP portal though, does not have the three way handshake. It is a connection less protocol that allows for the transmission of data without establishing a dedicated end to end connection. It is characterized by its simplicity and low overhead, making it suitable for applications where speed is crucial and occasional data loss is acceptable. It will just directly stop the communication. There's no authentication, so it's easy to impersonate the client or the server. The data origin IP can be easily spoofed. The iOS denial of service attack can be launched by exploiting UDP protocols. Vulnerability. The Domain Name System vertical is an example. This portal is a process that allows internal users to navigate the internet using hostname, such as google.com, instead of numerical IP addresses. So DNS helps translate URL to IP address. It probably used the UDP protocol for most of its operations, especially for regular DNS queries and responses. UDP is chosen for its speed and efficiency, making it well suited for the time sensitive nature of DNS lookup. Because we don't want to wait for a long time when we, uh, when we try to get to a website. But cache poisoning may happen to them, as this means an attacker may inject a fake scene as entry to a DNS server. Then the client, when he's visiting this DNS server to search for the right IP address he's directed to a fake website rather than the actual real website in that fake website. This client may get infected by a malware by simply visiting it. The source IP address may also be spoofed in those DNS queries. So then as responses will be sent to the spoofed source IP address which belongs to the victims, they call this the OS forgery attacks. An attacker can control a set false to send queries to the server, with victim's IP address as the source IP. So all those DNS server will respond to victim with the query results. If this victim is a server, this could cause distributed Theos attacks to this victim's server so that the server is kept busy and then deny other service requests. Due to the simple protocol and transport layer, which doesn't have authentication or encryption. There are these four types of vulnerabilities. In summary. Unauthorized access because insufficient access control and weak authentication. Cyber attacks such as seeing flood attacks, DNS border attacks, eavesdropping, and data tampering with data are either stolen or deliberately modified to mitigate cyber attacks. Firewall IDs IPS adding secure protocol on top of TCP, UDP can all be considered. We will discuss details in class.